README.md, before:

# NovelAI UKB
Welcome to the Unofficial Knowledge Base for Novel AI.

We have ported our operations here from Miraheze due to their shutdown in August 2023.

To consult the UKB, open the [Github Pages](https://tapwavezodiac.github.io/novelaiUKB/) for this repository.

# Building
To build the docs, run `make`. The docs will then be rendered in the [build/](build/) directory. :warning: The result might look different between local and GitHub Pages, try to see the result on GitHub Pages if the local version seems satifying.

To edit a page and see changes rendered as you write, a Markdown viewer is recommended.

# Contributing
To contibute to the repository, you can submit a Pull Request. The relevant parts are:
* [docs/](docs/): where the content is located, with one HTML page per Markdown file
* [filters/](filters/): where the lua filters for the Pandoc generation are located
* [css/](css/): where the CSS stylesheets are located
* [template](template.html5): the template used for the Pandoc generation

Commit message:

QoL Adjustments: (#14)
- Fixed a Typo in the footer of the ToC
- Added "Return to Index" as a link at the top of all non-index pages
- Added "Return to Index" as a link the ToC Footer for non-index pages
- Adjusted images to have a max size of 100% to enforce scaling as needed
- Added mentions of make and pandoc dependencies to the README
- Increased the size of the ToC collapse/expand glyph
- Adjusted the Index page a bit to have a more unified # structure

README.md, after:

# NovelAI UKB
Welcome to the Unofficial Knowledge Base for Novel AI.

We have ported our operations here from Miraheze due to their shutdown in August 2023.

To consult the UKB, open the [Github Pages](https://tapwavezodiac.github.io/novelaiUKB/) for this repository.

# Building
First, make sure you have both `make` and `pandoc` installed.
To build the docs, run `make`. The docs will then be rendered in the [build/](build/) directory. :warning: The result might look different between local and GitHub Pages, try to see the result on GitHub Pages if the local version seems satifying.

To edit a page and see changes rendered as you write, a Markdown viewer is recommended.

# Contributing
To contibute to the repository, you can submit a Pull Request. The relevant parts are:
* [docs/](docs/): where the content is located, with one HTML page per Markdown file
* [filters/](filters/): where the lua filters for the Pandoc generation are located
* [css/](css/): where the CSS stylesheets are located
* [template](template.html5): the template used for the Pandoc generation
